---
layout: post
title:  "How I got into blockchain"
date:   2017-05-19 11:00:00 +0200
categories:
---
## Finding my way
Around late 2012, early 2013 I was working at a shipping company in the port of Rotterdam. I was tasked with a variety of administrative procedures to get shipments from a to b. When I started that job, it was really exiting. I learned a lot about logistics and the administration behind it. After almost 1,5 years of working there, things started to become less interesting, I didn't go to work with the same enthusiasm as I did in the beginning. And it was around that time I started thinking about my future. There was one question I kept asking myself 'Where do I see myself in 10 years?' and the answer was never 'Working at a shipping company'.

At around April or May I decided I wanted to try getting a bachelor's degree, so I started looking at different studies. My first choice was applied psychology, but that study was only available in the most crowded and expensive city of the Netherlands (Amsterdam), so I decided to keep on looking. I always had a interest in computer technology, in fact I already attended community college in that direction but never finished it. After some research I decided to visit the open house at Rotterdam University of applied Sciences. I was interested in two studies, Media Technologies and Communication and Multimedia Design. The former is more technical and more into programming and the latter is more about UX/UI design and less into programming. After the open house visit I was convinced. I decided to apply for the Media Technologies study but because I hadn't finished community college I had to take an intake exam. The exam went great and I got accepted.

## The first two years of studying
During the following years I got into contact with a lot of innovative technologies. This was mainly because I started working at Stadslab Rotterdam, a fabrication laboratory (FabLab). I got into contact with 3D printers, laser cutters, VR headsets early on and this fired my desire to work with innovative technologies. Working at Stadslab I also met a lot of beautiful and nice people (most of them are now among my closest friends and one of them is my lovely girlfriend).

During my third year I had to do an internship. Because of the high demand for programmers I found a place relatively quick. But after just a few days on the job I decided it was not the right place to do my internship. My coworkers were lacking knowledge, and at some point I was more busy explaining things to them, while I should have been learning. So I decided to look for a more fitting place. I knew a few fellow students were doing their internship at Label A, one of the bigger digital agencies of the Netherlands. I already heard they were having a great time and learning a lot so I decided to give Label A a call. I was asked to come by the office for a coffee and to get to know each other. After the acquaintance they asked me to complete a small assignment but everything was good so the next week I started my internship at Label A.

My internship and third year of college were a breeze. Moving on to my last year I had to start thinking about my graduation project. I was still working part-time at Label A and one of the managers asked me if I wanted to do my graduation project at Label A. I was willing to, so we started discussing subjects. One of the subjects he suggested was blockchain. I had never heard of it, but I was immediately interested. Maybe it was because I have had bitcoins in the past which I had lost before the price rise of late 2013. Full of enthusiasm I started researching the subject so I could write my research proposal.

Very early on I reached out to the network I build up working at Stadslab Rotterdam. One of my ex coworkers there brought me into contact with an academic researcher that was researching blockchain. I went by his office and we talked about the subject. At some point during the conversation I was lost, everything he told me was just so overwhelming. I guess it was just too much to process at once. This scared me a bit, I didn't know if I was capable enough of pulling this off in just half a year. So after the meeting I had some doubts about the subject of my graduation project. I talked with my manager at Label A and he really wanted me to pull this off so he told me to go through with it. I'm really glad he did.

## The early stages and the hackathon
Early February I started with the project and the first thing I did was soaking up al the information I could get my hands on. A lot of desk research had to be done as I had to figure out what this blockchain thing was, and how it works. At some point I came across a few meet-ups related to the subject. I wanted to get in contact with experts on the subject so I decided to attend a few of those meet-ups. One of the meet-ups was in Amsterdam, I went there and got in contact with the Blockchain Education Network (BEN). At the same time I heard about a big hackathon taking place in Groningen (the Dutch Blockchain Hackathon). I thought I was too late to attend, but when I saw a BEN team listed among the participants, I decided to reach out to them. Unfortunately they did not have a spot for me in the first place. But one day before the event I got contacted by one of the BEN team members. Someone cancelled and if I was still willing to, I could join them. It was very last minute but nonetheless I decided to go. The opportunity to be in contact with blockchain experts for three full days was to much to miss out on.

So the next day I didn't go to the office but instead I took the train to Groningen to attend the hackathon. At that point I couldn't have guessed what this weekend would bring me. The event was great, everything was taken care of. During the weekend I got in contact with a lot of people, and I learned something from almost every single one of them. There were also some prizes to be won that weekend. My team was participating in the future of pensions track, so our job was to envision the future of pensions using blockchain. The whole weekend we worked our asses of to build a solution. In the end we ended up winning the hackathon, which was totally unexpected. The prize consisted of a trip to pitch our concept at Consensys in New York, Money and the best part, a full half year incubator at one of the sponsors to work on our prototype and business case.

## Whats next?
So thats how I got in contact with blockchain and bitcoin. The hackathon was really a major boost to my graduation project and knowledge about the subject. Since the hackathon a lot of things have happened but maybe i'll cover those in another post. Currently i'm finishing up my graduation project and I hope to do something related to blockchain after I graduate.
